PERFORMANCE.md, before:

# Performance Optimization Documentation

## Benchmark Results

The benchmark integration test for the DigitalRootPersistence API shows the following performance improvements:

| Implementation | Execution Time |
|----------------|---------------|
| Original       | 20 ms         |
| Optimized      | 10 ms         |

**Performance Improvement**: 50% faster 

## Benchmark Test

The benchmark test can be found at: [ComputeEngineBenchmarkTest.java](/test/project/annotations/ComputeEngineBenchmarkTest.java)

The test creates a large dataset (1000 numbers) and runs multiple iterations to ensure accurate timing. It includes JVM warm-up to avoid skewed results from just-in-time compilation effects.

## Performance Issue and Solution

### Issue Identified
The original implementation of the Digital Root Persistence algorithm (`ImplementDigitalRootPersistenceAPI`) used a string-based approach for processing integers. This involved repeatedly:
- Converting integers to strings
- Splitting strings into character arrays
- Converting characters back to integers
- Summing the digits

This approach required many object allocations and string manipulations, creating a CPU bottleneck.

### Solution Implemented
The optimized implementation (`FastDigitalRootPersistenceAPI`) addresses this bottleneck by:
- Using pure arithmetic operations instead of string conversions
Avoids the overhead of converting numbers to strings, making digit extraction faster.
- Extracting digits directly using modulo and division operations
Efficiently isolates digits without parsing, keeping the logic simple and fast.
- Eliminating unnecessary object creation
Reduces the number of temporary objects, saving memory and processing time.
- Reducing memory allocation and garbage collection overhead
Keeps operations in-place and lightweight, minimizing GC interruptions.

### Pull Requests
- [PR #1: Add optimized FastDigitalRootPersistenceAPI and benchmark in Main](https://github.com/your-username/SFE-Spring-2025-Project/pull/1)
- [PR #2: Add benchmark integration test for compute engine performance](https://github.com/your-username/SFE-Spring-2025-Project/pull/2)

## Running the Benchmark

```bash
./gradlew test --tests "project.annotations.ComputeEngineBenchmarkTest"
```

Commit message:

Add BigInteger support to FastDigitalRootPersistenceAPI and document optimization in PERFORMANCE.md

PERFORMANCE.md, after:

# Performance Optimization Documentation

## Benchmark Results

The benchmark integration test for the DigitalRootPersistence API shows the following performance improvements:

| Implementation | Execution Time |
|----------------|---------------|
| Original       | 20 ms         |
| Optimized      | 10 ms         |

**Performance Improvement**: 50% faster 

## Benchmark Test

The benchmark test can be found at: [ComputeEngineBenchmarkTest.java](/test/project/annotations/ComputeEngineBenchmarkTest.java)

The test creates a large dataset (1000 numbers) and runs multiple iterations to ensure accurate timing. It includes JVM warm-up to avoid skewed results from just-in-time compilation effects.

## Performance Issue and Solution

### Issue Identified
The original implementation of the Digital Root Persistence algorithm (`ImplementDigitalRootPersistenceAPI`) used a string-based approach for processing integers. This involved repeatedly:
- Converting integers to strings
- Splitting strings into character arrays
- Converting characters back to integers
- Summing the digits

This approach required many object allocations and string manipulations, creating a CPU bottleneck.

### Solution Implemented
The optimized implementation (`FastDigitalRootPersistenceAPI`) addresses this bottleneck by:
- Using pure arithmetic operations instead of string conversions
Avoids the overhead of converting numbers to strings, making digit extraction faster.
- Extracting digits directly using modulo and division operations
Efficiently isolates digits without parsing, keeping the logic simple and fast.
- Eliminating unnecessary object creation
Reduces the number of temporary objects, saving memory and processing time.
- Reducing memory allocation and garbage collection overhead
Keeps operations in-place and lightweight, minimizing GC interruptions.

### Additional Optimization: Arbitrary-Precision Support

Supports arbitrarily large integer inputs using Java's `BigInteger` class. This allows the engine to compute the digital root for numbers much larger than the standard 32-bit or 64-bit integer range, without loss of performance for typical inputs.

**Key Points:**
- The API now accepts both `int` and `BigInteger` inputs.
- The optimized digit-summing logic is implemented for `BigInteger`, ensuring correctness and efficiency for very large numbers.
- This change ensures compliance with the requirement to handle arbitrarily large inputs.

**Example Usage:**
```java
FastDigitalRootPersistenceAPI api = new FastDigitalRootPersistenceAPI();
String root = api.processDigitalRootPersistence(new BigInteger("123456789012345678901234567890"));
// root will be the digital root as a string
```

### Pull Requests
- [PR #1: Add optimized FastDigitalRootPersistenceAPI and benchmark in Main](https://github.com/your-username/SFE-Spring-2025-Project/pull/1)
- [PR #2: Add benchmark integration test for compute engine performance](https://github.com/your-username/SFE-Spring-2025-Project/pull/2)

## Running the Benchmark

```bash
./gradlew test --tests "project.annotations.ComputeEngineBenchmarkTest"
```
